

What exactly is Artificial Intelligence? It is basically the science and engineering of making intelligent machines, especially computer programs.


The ability to invent intelligent machines has fascinated humans since the ancient times. Researchers are creating systems and programs that could mimic human thoughts and try doing things that human could do. The artificial Intelligence is a combination of computer science, physiology and philosophy.

The Artificial Intelligence has come a long way from the old days. It was with the invention of the computers that the Artificial Intelligence method began to maneuver researchers. The technology was finally available and seemed to stimulate intelligent behavior. Intelligent here means, things which could be done at a faster pace and thinking than a human mind. The insights and theory brought about the Artificial Intelligence will set a trend in the future. The current products are just the beginning of the future trend.

 
There are different approaches and methods that are being used in Artificial Intelligence. Two major methodologies or believes are the bottom-up and top-down methods. The bottom-up theorists believe that the best way to achieve the AI is by building electronic replicas similar to the human brains complex network of neurons, whereas the top-down theorists believe in mimicking the human brain’s behavior with computer programs.

The Artificial intelligence research is highly technical and specialized. The research of the Artificial Intelligence is based on two main lines. One line is based on the biological thinking where the Artificial Intelligence is based on the idea of human thinking and that system should work like how humans think. The second line is about phenomenal which is based on formalizing common sense and facts about the world. Somehow both the researches intersect and may succeed eventually.

With the input of Artificial Intelligence, it is expected that many of the problems , the machines are expected to solve and that would require an extensive knowledge of the world. A lot of knowledge in various aspects has to be acquired in attaining the knowledge for an AI to function correctly.

 
The prediction of the usage of Artificial Intelligence is vast. This is a common topic both in science fiction and projections about the future society and technology. Some believe that with the onset of Artificial Intelligence, the progress of the country would be limited and some believe that since these could be replaced for various tasks that humans do, it may lead to unemployment too.

No matter what, science has always progressed and explored various sectors, the Artificial Intelligence is one sector that has great potential and could mark a history to scientific studies in the future.
